

This a model from the article:  
**A rabbit ventricular action potential model replicating cardiac dynamics at rapid heart rates.**   
Mahajan A, Shiferaw Y, Sato D, Baher A, Olcese R, Xie LH, Yang MJ, Chen PS,
Restrepo JG, Karma A, Garfinkel A, Qu Z, Weiss JN. _Biophys J_ 2008 Jan
15;94(2):392-410 [18160660](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18160660) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Mathematical modeling of the cardiac action potential has proven to be a
powerful tool for illuminating various aspects of cardiac function, including
cardiac arrhythmias. However, no currently available detailed action potential
model accurately reproduces the dynamics of the cardiac action potential and
intracellular calcium (Ca(i)) cycling at rapid heart rates relevant to
ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation. The aim of this study was to develop
such a model. Using an existing rabbit ventricular action potential model, we
modified the L-type calcium (Ca) current (I(Ca,L)) and Ca(i) cycling
formulations based on new experimental patch-clamp data obtained in isolated
rabbit ventricular myocytes, using the perforated patch configuration at 35-37
degrees C. Incorporating a minimal seven-state Markovian model of I(Ca,L) that
reproduced Ca- and voltage-dependent kinetics in combination with our
previously published dynamic Ca(i) cycling model, the new model replicates
experimentally observed action potential duration and Ca(i) transient
alternans at rapid heart rates, and accurately reproduces experimental action
potential duration restitution curves obtained by either dynamic or S1S2
pacing.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Mahajan A, Shiferaw Y, Sato D, Baher A, Olcese R,
Xie LH, Yang MJ, Chen PS, Restrepo JG, Karma A, Garfinkel A, Qu Z, Weiss JN.
(2008) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/5a23665da1793b4bfbad92defe7e639d)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Penny Noble**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

